Richard Feynman is quoted as saying "If you can't explain something simply, you don't understand it well enough".  Indeed I find that trying to explain something shows me how little I understand, and ultimately causes me to go back and do more research, so this will be my ever-evolving introduction the use of effects to my former self (and other developers discovering the concept). 

## Starting from Simple Example  
I found this fantastic example from @nessos, from his C# implementation where Eff is used to model reading data from ASP.NET's `AppSettings`. This is basically identical to the process of reading environment variables.  It's a great example because reading environment variables is a very common seemingly trivial task that many programmers have done before, but for which there is a surprisingly broad range of "techniques" to do it across various languages.  To me, this lack a uniform approach indicates that there is a deeper and more subtle problem which "simplistic" techniques fail to address, making them all seem flawed or incomplete. I think it's important to formally recognize that despite seeming simple, it is an "effectful operation", and inherits complexities as a result of that fact. With this in mind, we can now try to use the formalized mechanism of Algebraic Effects to model it thoroughly, and hope to end up with a better pattern... hopefully a pattern which can work across any language that has a library for Algebraic Effects.  

Along with the example below, is an attempt explanation of the process the author used to model "a simple read" of settings an an Effect in C#.  Based on this explanation, the hope is that a developer without minimal understanding of what Effects and Handlers are, can follow the pattern and create a custom effect and handler of their own.  

## C# Example
https://github.com/nessos/Eff/blob/master/src/examples/Eff.Examples.Config/Program.cs

* Note: The section below is inaccurate and needs clarification*  

It seems the way to implement Eff involves the two provided abstract base classes to derive a bunch of related `Handler` and `Effect` classes.  The individual `Effect` classes encapsulate the data/state that you want to get back from operations, and the `Handler` encapsulates the behavior/functions for a related set of `Effect` classes.  a `Handler`: the `Handle()` method.  Finally, there's the `Eff<T>` class. 

1. Create an instance of a custom `Handler<T>` class
2. Create an instance of the related custom `Effect<T>`
3. Call the `Handle()` method, of the `Handler<T>` instance, passing it the instance of `Effect<T>`
4. Crucially, the required and manual last step of every `Handle()` method needs to be to call the built-in `SetResult()` method of the `Effect<T>` instance.  
5. Crucially, you don't return anything from Handle (either `void` or `Task`).

So, lets imagine some other very common system operations.  I can imagine a nuget package called `FileIOEffect`.  If it's thorough, it will try to encapsulate every operation you might want do with FileIO.  This would include a `ReadFileEffect`, `WriteFileEffect`, and perhaps a `ReadAllToStringEffect`.  Each with slightly different member variables to capture whatever "result type" makes sense.  Then, it would need a `FileIOHandler`.  The interesting thing about the `FileIOHandler` is that you needs to use a `switch` statement to pattern match on all the possible related `Effect` subtypes, and perform the appropriate logic inside the `case` statements.  I imagine the `case` bodies will often be extracted to static method in the handler class.  Again, the last part is also intereseting, you won't be returning values from these functions, you have to remember to use `SetResult<T>(whatever_you_want_returned)`. 

## Finding Familiarity  

This whole formalized pattern taken together is unique, but there are familiar pieces here.  In one respect, it has elements of the "Execute around" pattern. In another respect, it's shares some elements with the `out parameters` used in C#.   It also has an element of the visitor pattern based on the effect subtypes.  It seems like a kind of clever strategy and convention, but unlike the majority of other "clever strategies" I've seen, this one comes based on a complete algebra, and a massive body of successful research and trial. In C#, the implementation uses a lot of interface and inheritence.  I guess in FP languages, they would use higher-kinded types to achieve the same thing, but I'm not sure.  [Seeking Other Perspectives Here](https://github.com/solvingj/eff-algebraic-effect-notes/issues/new)

## Developer Experience - Compiler Considerations  

There are several schools of thought around coding without return values, but it's certainly a departure for many mainstream languages and we do lose a compile-time saftey net here which seems to be a real consideration.  IDE's and compilers currently all throw an error until you return an appropriate variable, but you'll get no warning if you forget to do `SetResult()`.  We would need a compiler error looking for a valid `SetResult()` call inside all `Handle()` methods for all  classes that derive from `Handler<T>`.  This would require a VS extension, if it's even possible. It probably is, since VS now warns if you don't set a value on an `out` variable in C#, but that's a language feature, so who knows.  This is definitely the type of thing that motivates people say "the language isn't designed for that pattern".  It's also definitely a case where the pattern has to prove it's value before the tooling teams will spend the time accomodating it. 